I'm back in JSFiddle and here's a very simple fiddle where I get my app div where I output a title
which we can find in the data property down there, where I get a button hooked up to a wind with v-on
syntax here
with to the or hooked up to this show method in the methods property on our vue instance and we get
this v-if to conditionally show something.
I also get a computed property which calculates lower case title and then here, I got this watch property
where I simply throw an alert whenever I click this show paragraph button.
So if I do this, yeah we see this alert, we see this is updated,
we saw that alert as a side up because we were watching the title and the title changed when clicking
this.
So this code doesn't do anything
we haven't seen yet,
it's just a little collection of things we saw. In this section,
I want to focus on this vue instance though.
We got all these properties, el, data, methods, computed
and that really is what makes up a vuejs application and what makes up a vue instance. The vue instance
kind of is the middleman between our dom, our html code up there and our business logic,
we pack all our business logic into this vue instance, either in the data property if it's simply some data
we want to work with, be that set it initially or change throughout the application,
be that a method which you want to call,
for example when clicking a button where we then want to interact with our data and change it, like
here in the methods property where we set up such methods or be that dependencies or more complex operations
where we depend on the value of another property, like here in the computed property.
These are the options on the vue instance you already learned about throughout the last modules
and that again is what composes your vue instance and composes your application which allows you to
pick the right tool for the right task using vuejs and setting it all up
in this vue instance. Well, there are two things I haven't touched on at all for a good reason but now is
the time to do so,
the first thing is did you ever wonder if we could have more than just one vue instance?
In the end we do hook up our vue instance with this el selector here to this div ID with the, well to
this div with the ID app, what if we would have another div with another ID,
could we create a new instance?
The answer is yes, I'll come back to this,
let me first ask the second question, can we access our vue instance from outside?
We do have all our logic inside this object we passed to the constructor here but could we access our
instance from outside?
The answer on this question is yes too
so let's look at these two questions in more detail now.